Angular(Angular 2 onwards) : 
	Angular is an open-source, JavaScript framework written in TypeScript, 
		which allows us to create reactive SPAs(Single Page Application).
	Angular is a SPA framework.
	
Angular Versions
	AngularJS(Angular 1)-Misko Hevery - 2010 
	Angular 2(Complete Re-write) -2016
	Angular (no 3 version),4,5,6,,7,8,9...18,19

	Angular is supported by Google.
	New version every 6 months
	Angular is backward compatible till Angular 2.
	
Angular Features
	Supports Data-binding
	Supports Single page application(routing)
	Supports many services like httpclient
	Supports many Library
	Supports many validation concepts
	Supports material design controls
	Supports MVC - MVV design Paterns
	Filters(Pipes)
	Simple Coding
	Supports a structure to implement logics

Angular Features
• Component-based framework
• Clean separation of template coding and application logic
• Built-in support for data-binding and dependency injection
• Supports responsive web design and modern frameworks
• Bootstrap, Google Material Design (Angular Material) and others …

Angular related technologies
	1)Angular
	2)Angular CLI
	3)JavaScript/TypeScript
	4)Reactive Programming, RxJS, Observables, operators
	5)Redux, ngRx
	6)Jasmine, Karma for testing
	
	
The Component Based Model 
	Angular use Component Based Model.
	Tree with Root component

	To reuse, a component can be assigned a name/selector.
	Every component can have a sub-components.
	A tree will be formed from components.
	There will be only one root component.

	
Angularjs - Angular
	Both support data binding.
	
	Angularjs is the framework of javascript. 
	Angular is the framework of typescript.

	Version 1.x is Angularjs. 
	From 2.0 onwords we can call as Angular

	Angularjs not support OOPS. 
	Angular supports OOPS

	Angularjs is not supporting data types.
	Angular supports data types.

	Angularjs is good for data binding and single page applications but not supports mobile browsers.
	Angular built based on mobile support.

	Angularjs functionalities are available in angular.js file. 
	Angular functionalities are available  in the form of node packages.

	Angularjs code is visible in browser source option, but not angular.

	Angularjs is modular programming and angular is component programming.

	Angular is providing more support in routing than angular js

	Angular is simple in coding than AJs

	Angular supports material design controls(it provide rich look & feel).
	
	
	
	
AngularJS : It is framework of javascript (1.x)
Angular : It is framework of typescript to implement dynamic web pages.
			It is client side script.
				Client side script:
					To apply dynamic functionalities on html controls
					To validate input controls
					To execute logics in browser
					To work with AJAX
			Supports databinding
			single page application
			provides many services
			supports many validation states
			Supports material design controls
			Supports Design patterns
			Provides a structure to implement logics
			Filters/Pipes

Javascript & Typescript
		Javascript : loosely typed script
		Typescript : It is type safe
		
		Javascript is interpreted
		Typescript is compiled
		
		Javascript is not supporting all OOPS
		Typescript supports OOPS
		
		Javascript is not good to display errors
		Typescript display any type of error
		
		Typescript is very simple than javascript coding
		
		Typescript is superset of javascript
		
		Javascript - Netscape corp
		Typescript - Microsoft

	
SPA-Single Page Application
		Page loaded only once
		Dom would be updated dynamically
		Example-
			Facebook
			Gmail
	Advantage-
		Better User Experience
				feel like entrie application running locally
		Fast
		Easy development
			diff frontend and backend
		Work Offline
	Disadvantage-
		Initial load takes time but subsequent interaction will be faster
		Less secured
			Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
		Memory Leaks


Angular Development
• For Angular development, we can develop using various languages
	• JavaScript: extremely popular programming language
	• ECMAScript: standardized version of JavaScript (ES6, ES9, …)
	• TypeScript: adds optional types to JavaScript
		• TypeScript is the most popular language for Angular development
	• Other languages such as Dart, etc …

TypeScript
• FAQ: Why do most Angular developers use TypeScript?
• Strongly-typed language with compile time checking and IDE support
• Increased developer productivity and efficiency
• The Angular framework is internally developed using TypeScript
• Docs, online blogs and tutorials use TypeScript for coding examples

http://www.typescriptlang.org/ 



Angular Architecture
	Components
		Child Components
		Child Components
		Child Components
	View Templates 
	Services
	Directive
	Modules

Key Terms
	Term 				Definition
	Component
		Main player in an Angular application. Has two parts:
		1. View for user interface
		2. Class that contains application logic / event handling for the view
	View Template 
		The user interface for the component
		Static HTML with dynamic elements
	Directive 
		Adds custom behavior to HTML elements
		Used for looping, conditionals etc
	Service 
		Helper class that provides desired functionality
		Retrieving data from a server, performing a calculation, validation etc
	Module 
		A collection of related components, directives, services etc


In Angular world,developers commonly use "public" properties